# FAKE-NEWS-DETECTION-PROJECT

In this era of social media with several virtual platforms around to pass information like What’s app, Twitter , Instagram, Facebook it has become a common practice nowadays to pass on fake information knowingly and unknowingly. As every coin has two sides, this does too. As the news spreads faster, at the same time the authenticity of the news is compromised, which implies that a news might be coming from anywhere without a proper fact check. This in turn creates havoc among people and leads to distress and tension among communities. Most of the times, fake news are to deteriorate the image of a certain human belonging to any background. The main reason behind the coverage of fake news is because the sources of news available to people for checking if a particular news article reaching to them is true or fake are negligible, even if they are available, the accuracy rates are much less and to some extent the algorithms used in detecting the news might not work as precisely. So, here we plan to propose an application using machine learning algorithms like Naïve Bayes, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) & C-RNN, speech recognition technology, Optical character resolution. This application that we have designed not only detects the fake news but can also provide a feature to explore more news simultaneously and this feature even predicts the related true news to the fake news entered. We used Kaggle's Fake News Detection dataset for development purposes. To ensure the accuracy of our news, we manually cross-checked each article from reputable news sources such as The Times Of India, BBC, CNN, ESPN and ABC. Moreover, the application will be flexible enough to process information in any format – text, image and audio. This feature is specially included keeping in mind the different formats in which the false information is passed on. For the security of our web application we have created a login functionality which is linked to firebase database which provides inbuilt security for our application.

Keywords- Fake News Detection, Machine Learning Algorithms, Mobile Application Development, Wen application, Dataset, Firebase.
